[DM-35550] Initial version (#1)
lsst-dm/dmtn-235: index.rst

    At present, there is a single scope for access to all images.
    In the future, this may be broken into separate scopes for data releases or types of images.

.. _DMTN-230: https://dmtn-230.lsst.io/
.. _DMTN-208: https://dmtn-208.lsst.io/
.. _datalinker: https://github.com/lsst-sqre/datalinker

``read:tap``
    Grants access to perform queries in the TAP service.

``user:token``
    Can create and modify tokens for the same user as the token that has this scope (as opposed to ``admin:token``, which allows any operation on tokens for any user).
    This scope is automatically granted to users when they authenticate.
    It exists as a separate scope primarily so that users can choose not to grant it to user tokens that they create, so that their programmatic tokens cannot themselves create new tokens.

Creating new scopes
===================

Many authorization systems discover too late that they've allowed scopes to proliferate to the point where they become confusing and difficult to keep track of.
To avoid this, the Rubin Science Platform only creates new scopes when there is a clear and compelling need.
Specifically,

> #. there exist two users who should receive different levels of access in a way that cannot be represented by the existing scopes, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. there exist two users who should receive different levels of access to the same deployment in a way that cannot be represented by the existing scopes, and
```

#. this access control difference must be done with scopes and not groups.

> When to use scopes and when to use groups is fuzzy, but the general rule of thumb (as mentioned in :ref:`Purpose <purpose>` above) is that scopes control access to a service in its entirety, or to the administrative API as opposed to the user API of the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the relative merit of when to use scopes and when to use groups is sometimes open to debate, our design pattern in the RSP (as mentioned in :ref:`Purpose <purpose>` above) is that scopes control access to a service in its entirety, or to the administrative API as opposed to the user API of the service.
```

> Groups should be used for all other access control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Groups are to be used for all other access control.
```

> Groups must be interpreted by the service (or by another service to which it delegates access control decisions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Groups must be interpreted by each service (or by another service to which the first service delegates access control decisions).
```

> Scopes are enforced by the authentication layer, before the service ever sees the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scopes are enforced by the authentication layer, before the service ever sees the request, since they determine access to the service in the first place.
```

Also be aware that the addition of a scope that a user may be granted makes the token management UI more complex for the user.
When the user is creating new tokens, they are expected to pick the scopes that token should have so that it does not have excessive access.
Ideally, the number of scopes they're presented with should be no more than 10 and should be obvious and self-explanatory.

> If, after considering those factors, you believe a new scope is warranted, talk to the SQuaRE team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers of services sharing authentication and authorisation controls with the RSP who after considering those factors still believe a new scope is warranted should raise the issue with the SQuaRE team.
```
